OK so here's another a single loop circuit.
However this time I've included a second MF source.
However if you look at it so it's same as the first and we are a tenable battery here.
Now I have a five year old battery however look at the polarity.
It's kind of opposite of the first one.
So I now want to go ahead and I have two questions.
First one find the current standard question and next one let's have a look at the energy in this circuit
and are the power being supplied and dissipated.
So let's start with the first one again we can apply the loop rule starting at point A.
I always start here it doesn't matter you can start wherever you want.
It makes no difference.
OK so the first thing I encounter Now again the loop rule always implies a direction of the current.
So what we're going to do is we're going to pick a direction of the current.
Since this battery is stronger than now on I'm going to assume that the current is going to go like
this.
So first thing I cross now is the battery and I go from the lower to the higher electrical potential.
Therefore I get plus 10.
Now I cross your resistance in the direction of the current.
I get a voltage drop given by ohms law which is three times I.
That's the same.
Next thing I get another voltage drop.
And now what happens now when I cross a battery going from the positive terminal toward the negative
terminal I get a voltage drop also.
Right.
I go toward a lower electrical potential and that mine is the IMF or the battery or minus 5 volts and
that they I go back to where I start.
That equals to zero.
So you see in this case now you get ten minus five which gives me five minus five I.
So re-arranges equation you're going to get that the current now simply egal to 1 amp OK.
That's the current It's going to be the same through all the various components that I have over here
and it's 1.0.
Okay.
Same over here same going through their same flow in a peer single loop circuit.
All right next let's find the power being supplied.
Well there's 10 volt battery.
If I look at the power from the MF One again it's the value of the IMF multiplied by the amount of current
flowing through it.
So in this case it's 10 volts.
It is less current.
There's only one at this time so this one is providing 10 watts 10 jewel per second.
How about this other MF.
Number two again if the value of the IMF multiplied by the current this is five times the one that's
5 watts OK now we can look at the power being dissipated in the resistors.
You know the formula now.
So the power being dissipated by the 3 ohm resistor the value of the resistance are one multiplied by
the current squared three multiplied by one squared is me three watts
and the last one the power being dissipated by the two resistor the value of the resistance multiplied
by the current squared again two and one squared is me 2 watts
OK.
Now if you look at the total power being dissipated Well you have to sum both of those.
Right.
That's simply 5 watts.
Five watts is basically energy being dissipated as heat most likely.
And However look at how much energy energy is being supplied.
What happens over here actually.
Both of these terms.
Well actually what happens is you look at this battery over here.
This is our dominant battery over here.
It is supplying 10 watts of power.
Five watts is being dissipated in heat.
The other 5 watts that's being delivered by the strong battery here is being absorbed.
This is being absorbed which means you're basically charging this battery you're increasing its energy
at this particular rate.
Charging want to try that again.
Charging the battery.
OK so whenever you have kind of two power supplies like this in one of them is reverse polarity from
the other one.
It is basically you know if you kind of do this energy balance you're going to find an imbalance here.
And the reason for that is that the second the weaker battery tends to be in a charging phase.
OK it's absorbing energy at a particular rate whereas the dominant one is supplying energy to the entire
circuit.